(DOCS-10466) Move Remote Config (#28710)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/remote_configuration/_index.md

---
title: Remote Configuration
aliases:
- /agent/guide/how_rc_works
- /agent/guide/how_remote_config_works
- /agent/remote_config
further_reading:
- link: "/security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#built-in-protection"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "How Application Security Monitoring Works"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/?tab=configurationyaml#enable-remote-configuration"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dynamic Instrumentation"
- link: "/security/threats/setup"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Setting Up Workload Protection"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/compliance-governance-transparency-with-datadog-audit-trail/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Using Datadog Audit Trail"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/remote-configuration-for-datadog/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Apply real-time updates to Datadog components with Remote Configuration"
algolia:
  tags: ['remote config', 'remote configuration']
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}

> <div class="alert alert-warning">Remote Configuration is not supported for your selected <a href="/getting_started/site">Datadog site</a> ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).</div>

Reviewer: We need to remember to remove this when launching in Gov (planned for towards the end of the year)

The following diagram illustrates how Remote Configuration works:

{{<img src="agent/remote_config/RC_Diagram_v5.png" alt="Users configure features in the UI, the config is stored in Datadog, the Agent requests config updates." width="90%" style="center">}}

1. You configure select product features in the Datadog UI.
2. The product feature configurations are securely stored within Datadog.
3. Remote-configuration enabled Datadog components in your environments securely poll, receive, and automatically apply configuration updates from Datadog. Tracing libraries that are deployed in your environments communicate with Agents to request and receive configuration updates from Datadog instead of directly polling Datadog.

## Supported environments

Remote Configuration works in environments where supported Datadog components are deployed. Supported Datadog components include:
- Agents
- Tracers (indirectly)
- Observability Pipeline Workers
- Private action runners and serverless container cloud services such as AWS Fargate.

> Remote Configuration does not support serverless container managed apps, such as AWS App Runner, Azure Container Apps, Google Cloud Run; or functions deployed with container packaging, such as AWS Lambda, Azure Functions, and Google Cloud Functions.

Reviewer: @mellon85 is this completely accurate?

Author: Sounds like this is still accurate for now. But we can iterate in a follow-up PR if necessary

## Supported products and features

The following products and features are supported with Remote Configuration.

Fleet Automation
: - [Send flares][27] directly from the Datadog site. Seamlessly troubleshoot the Datadog Agent without directly accessing the host.
: - [Upgrade your Agents][29] (Preview).

App and API Protection (AAP)
: - 1-click AAP activation: Enable AAP in 1-click from the Datadog UI.
: - In-App attack patterns updates: Receive the newest Web Application Firewall (WAF) attack patterns automatically as Datadog releases them, following newly disclosed vulnerabilities or attack vectors.

> : - Protect: Block attackers' IPs, authenticated users, and suspicious requests that are flagged in AAP Security Signals and Traces temporarily or permanently through the Datadog UI.

Reviewer: missing links to products documentation

Application Performance Monitoring (APM)

> : - Configuration at runtime (Beta): Change a service's trace sampling rate, Log Injection enablement, and HTTP header tags from within the Software Catalog UI, without having to restart the service. Read [Configuration at Runtime][22] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: - Configuration at runtime (Preview): Change a service's trace sampling rate, Log Injection enablement, and HTTP header tags from within the Software Catalog UI, without having to restart the service. Read [Configuration at Runtime][22] for more information.
```

> : - Remotely set Agent sampling rate (Public Beta): Remotely configure the Datadog Agent to change its trace sampling rates and set rules to scale your organization's trace ingestion according to your needs, without needing to restart your Datadog Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: - Remotely set Agent sampling rate (Preview): Remotely configure the Datadog Agent to change its trace sampling rates and set rules to scale your organization's trace ingestion according to your needs, without needing to restart your Datadog Agent.
```

  <div class="alert alert-info">Some components like private action runners are always remote configuration enabled. Others, like Agents, can be enabled or disabled using in-disk configuration options.</div>
- Datadog never sends configuration changes unless requested by Datadog components. If it does send configuration changes, Datadog only sends changes relevant to the requesting component.
- The configuration requests are initiated from your infrastructure to Datadog over HTTPS (port 443). This is the same port that the Agent uses by default to send observability data.
- The communication between your datadog components and Datadog is encrypted using HTTPS and is authenticated and authorized using your Datadog API key except in the case of private action runners where a JWT token is used instead.
- Only users with the [`api_keys_write`][5] permissions are authorized to enable or disable Remote Configuration capability on API keys and use the supported product features.
- Your configuration changes submitted through the Datadog UI are signed and validated by the requesting Datadog component, verifying the integrity of the configuration.

## Enabling Remote Configuration

> 

Reviewer 3: Confirming that the [prerequisites](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/remote_config?tab=configurationyamlfile#prerequisites) are no longer needed

| Workload Protection | [Workload Protection](/security/threats/) |
| Observability Pipelines | Ensure that you've [enabled Remote Configuration on the API key][32] you're using for Observability Pipelines. |
| Sensitive Data Scanner | [Cloud storage](/security/sensitive_data_scanner/setup/cloud_storage/?tab=newawsaccount) |
| Private Action Runner | [Private Actions Overview](/actions/private_actions/) |

## Best practices

### Datadog Audit Trail

Use [Datadog Audit Trail][13] to monitor organization access and Remote Configuration enabled events. Audit Trail allows your administrators and security teams to track the creation, deletion, and modification of Datadog API and application keys. After Audit Trail is configured, you can view events related to Remote Configuration enabled features and who has requested these changes. Audit Trail allows you to reconstruct sequences of events, and establish robust Datadog monitoring for Remote Configuration.

### Monitors

Configure [monitors][14] to receive notifications when an event of interest is encountered.

## Opting out of Remote Configuration

> Instead of disabling Remote Configuration globally, Datadog recommends opting out for specific Datadog products. For more information, see [the documentation for the relevant product](#product-specific-configuration).

Reviewer 3: I can foresee clients asking support about the option to disable globally, for one reason or the other. I propose adding a bit of the previous content in this section:

> Disable Remote Configuration at the organization level on the [Remote Configuration](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/remote-config) page. This disables Datadog components across your organization to receive configurations from Datadog. You need the [org_management](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/rbac/permissions#access-management) permission to disable Remote Configuration at the organization level.

Author: I've added some instructions in the fleet automation section for doing this. I'd rather not put it on the main page.
